# Getting started

This document will guide you on how to get vtemplate up and running. By the
end you will have a fully functioning vtemplate!

## Fetching the repository

The cleanest way to add the vtemplate repository to your git project is to
merge it into a fresh git repository.

```
$ mkdir app && cd app && git init
$ git remote add -f --no-tags vtemplate git://github.com/Moult/vtemplate.git
$ git merge -Xtheirs vtemplate/master
```

If you want to add vtemplate into an existing application (most likely another
Kohana setup), you can do that too. Just remove `-Xtheirs` so you can manually
merge in the repository. Note that this is not recommended and you'll likely
have a lot of fun resolving conflicts :)

## Resolving Composer dependencies

Kohana is nicely decoupled and everything is stripped away from its core
system. The code we have now is the bare skeleton of vtemplate and won't run
by itself. Thankfully, Composer is a great dependency manager which'll pull in
all the components we need:

```
$ curl -sS https://getcomposer.org/installer | php
$ php composer.phar install --dev
```

## Phing and deploying

We've now got all the necessary files for our application. The final step is
to configure it for our environment. This is made quick and easy with Phing.

### Configure the environment

All you have to do is edit `build.properties`. To get started quickly, just
copy `build.properties.example` to `build.properties`.

For this quick setup, let's assume we want to install vtemplate into
http://localhost/app/. Simply specify `dir.sub=app/`, and
`deploy.location=/path/to/localhost/webroot/app`. (Obviously, use your own
path) Please note that the deploy.location should not be your Git repository's
location.

Now set `chown.user` and `chown.group` to the user and group that the files
should belong to. If your server is set up so that PHP runs as the file owner,
you can leave `chmod.required=false`. Otherwise, you might need to enable
`chmod.required=true` so that phing can chmod necessary files as 777.

#### Tip: using multiple build properties

If you are working with multiple environments, you should create a properties
file for each one. For example, create a `development.properties`,
`staging.properties`, and `production.properties`. You can specify phing to
use these files by using the `-propertyfile <file>` argument.

### Build your application files

Now let's tell phing to build a set of files appropriate to run our
application. This will resolve all runtime dependencies and strip out
unnecessary development files. Simply run `bin/phing make`. By default you'll
see the generated code in the `build/code` directory.

### Install your application

Now let's install the application with the build properties we configured.
Simply run `bin/phing install` and phing will patch the code to be specific to
your environment.

### Deploy your application

Deploying is straightforward: phing simply copies your built code into the
right location. A local deployment is the simplest so that's what we'll do.
Simply run `bin/phing deploy`.

### All done!

If everything worked great, go to `http://localhost/app` and you should see
`Hello world! You've got vtemplate up and running just wonderfully.`

## Keeping vtemplate up to date

At any time in the future of your project, you can always update to the latest
vtemplate:

 1. `git fetch vtemplate`
 2. `git merge --no-commit vtemplate/master`
