# Rapid prototyping

Having a well decoupled code architecture is vital for long-term code
maintainence. However sometimes you need to quickly throw up placeholders or
mockups for clients.

VTemplate allows you to quickly create pages by including an autoloader and
autorenderer. In this document, we'll explain how this works.

## A quick example

You'll notice that by default your application shows the contents of
`application/templates/static/homepage.mustache`. Now, try going to
`http://localhost/app/static/homepage/` and you'll see the exact same content.
Notice how the `static/homepage` in the URL is translated into
`templates/static/homepage.mustache`.

Now, create the file `application/templates/static/foo/bar.mustache` and put
the text `Foobar` inside it. When you visit
`http://localhost/app/static/foo/bar/` you'll see `Foobar` appear. Pretty
simple, eh?

If you look in the page source, you can see that it automatically includes the
contents of `header.mustache` and `footer.mustache` in
`application/templates/partials/`.

## How autoloading and autorendering works

Because the way it works is actually super simple, it makes sense to
understand it so that you can remove it / customise it for your project.

### What happens when a page is requested

All application requests begin by matching a route to an action to be
performed by a controller. This is regex based and can extract parameters out
of the URL. That detected controller and action is then executed.

What the controller does at this stage is completely up to you :)

After the controller does its work, three things are required to render a
page:

 1. **A View** - this is a class that executes display related logic, and
    simplifies it into Mustache tags that are sent to the layout and template.
 2. **A Layout** - this is a Mustache template for the overall layout of your
    page and usually defines how all the template files are pieced together.
 3. **A Template** - this is a Mustache template that is actual content of
    your page.

The controller uses the view to render the template, organised by the layout.

Now let's walk through the steps in detail to explain how autoloading and
autorendering works.

### Routing

Routes are defined in `application/routes/`. So if we look at
`application/routes/default.php` we'll find a static page autoloader route.
This is standard Kohana routing.

```
/**
 * Static page autoloader
 */
Route::set('default', '(<template_path>)', array('template_path' => '.*'))
    ->defaults(array(
        'controller' => 'static',
        'action'     => 'loader',
    ));
```

It'll take any possible input in your URL (matched by the regex `.*`), put
that into the `template_path` request parameter and execute the `loader`
action in the `static` controller. Now let's see what the controller is doing
:)

### The controller controls your application

Open up `application/classes/Controller/Static.php`. It's pretty empty, but
the bit we're interested in is the `loader` action.

```
    /**
     * Autoloads view templates which don't have a specific route setup
     *
     * @return void
     */
    public function action_loader()
    {
        $template_path = $this->request->param('template_path');
        if (Kohana::find_file('templates', $template_path, 'mustache'))
        {
            $this->view = new View_Layout;
            $this->template = $template_path;
        }
    }
```

All it does is set a default view to be `View_Layout` and set the template to
be based on the `template_path` parameter provided in the URL.

Notice there is no code that explicitely renders the page. Instead, the page
is automatically rendered via hooks provided in
`application/classes/Controller/Core.php`, which is extended by this class.

### How the core controller hooks autodetects and autorenders

In the core controller's `before()` hook, it attempts to autoload your view
based on the name of your controller and action.

```
$view_class_name = 'View_'.ucfirst($this->request->controller()).'_'.ucfirst($this->request->action());
```

For example, if `Controller_Static` is executing the `action_homepage` function,
it will try and set `$this->view` to be `View_Static_Homepage` at
`application/classes/View/Static/Homepage.php`.

In the core controller's `after()` hook, if a view isn't set, it'll throw a
404 error. Otherwie, it'll render the page with the set view, layout, and
template.

```
return $this->response->body(Kostache_Layout::factory($this->layout)->render($this->view, $this->template));
```

Whilst `$this->view` is autoloaded in the `before()` hook, `$this->layout` is
set to be `layout` by default, and `$this->template` is set to be `NULL`.

If `$this->template` is `NULL`. KOstache will try to load the template that
has the same path as your view. So if your view is
`application/classes/View/Static/Homepage.php`, KOstache will try and detect
the template at `application/templates/static/homepage.mustache`. Note the
conversion to lowercase.

If you don't want to use autorendering, you can always set `$this->layout`,
`$this->view` and `$this->template` manually in your controller.

### What the view does

Because Mustache is logicless, all of this logic has to happen in a view. The
default view selected by our autoloader is `View_Layout`.

If we look at `application/classes/View/Layout.php` you can see that it
already provides a few simple but common variables to be used in your
templates. These tags can be provided first by public function names, and then
by public attribute names, where functions override attributes.

For example, to use the `public $page_title;` attribute as a tag, just put
`{{page_title}}` in your Mustache template file. Or to use the `public
function baseurl()` as a tag, just put `{{baseurl}}`. If you created a `public
function page_title()`, it's return value will override the value set by
`public $page_title;`.

### What the templates do

Simply put, they don't do anything. They are HTML, CSS, Javascript and so on
with Mustache tags. They are only displayed.

## Summary

You now understand the entire flow from input to output.

 1. A route maps a URL to your controller action.
 2. The core controller `before()` hook attempts to autoload a view.
 3. Your controller action is executed.
 4. The core controller `after()` hook attempts to autorender a page.
 5. The view sets all the available Mustache tags.
 6. The Mustache layout organises the templates.
 7. The templates are displayed.
