# Writing specs

Whilst Behat is a great tool for testing your application as a whole, it's
unweidly for testing little bits of your application when you do BDD. This is
where PHPSpec comes in.

## Don't develop your application here

In general, it's a bad idea to couple your application layer with your
delivery layer. VTemplate is part of your delivery layer. As such, your
application itself should ideally live far away - such as in a separate
repository. You can then autoload your application as a Composer dependency,
and then just write the necesary code to deliver it.

If you absolutely want to merge it all into one repository, keep on reading.
VTemplate will help you keep the damage to the minimum so that you can split
it into another repository later when you see fit.

## Running PHPSpec

Specs are stored in `spec/`. Running PHPSpec without any arguments will test
all the specs.

```
$ bin/phpspec
```

Because we don't have any specs yet, you won't get any results.

```
0 examples 
0ms
```

## Writing a spec

Let's start developing our application by describing a usecase. (Note: this is
just an example, your app architecture will be different).

```
$ bin/phpspec describe "App\Core\Usecase"
Specification for App\Core\Usecase created in spec/App/Core/Usecase.php.
```

If we run PHPSpec again, it'll complain because even though we've got a spec
for our usecase, we haven't actually created that usecase yet.

```
$ bin/phpspec
spec/App/Core/Usecase
   9  ! it should be initializable
      class App\Core\Usecase does not exists.

  Do you want me to create this class for you?
                                                               [Y/n] n

                       100%                        1

1 example (1 broken)
1494ms
```

Note that I'm choosing `n` when it asks whether it should create a class for
me. This is because PHPSpec has hard-coded that classes should exist in
`src/`, whereas we want our classes to appear in `application/classes/`. This
is unfortunately a bug and we'll have just say no to PHPSpec's autogenerator
for now. Let's instead create the class manually. Create
`application/classes/App/Core/Usecase.php` and make a class.

```
<?php
namespace App\Core;

class Usecase {}
```

Now when we run PHPSpec, again it'll succeed.

```
$ bin/phpspec 
                       100%                        1

1 example (1 passed)
48ms
```

## Migrating away your application from this repository

Because PHPSpec generates PSR-0 namespaced code, it's easy to split your
delivery-level code and application-level code into two repositories. In the
example above, just move your entire `App` directory in
`application/classes/`.

## Testing delivery-level code

PHPSpec emphasises well decoupled code. Unfortunately Kohana's internal code
is a little too stuck together and is very uneasy to spec. For example, you'd
have to do a lot of mocking and stubbing to emulate the entire Request and
Response model that Kohana has.

What's the solution? Don't spec it. Rely on Behat to provide comprehensive
full stack testing.
