# Frontend development

As a frontend developer, things are very easy and you'll be up and running in
no time.

## What to write and where

All frontend is written in Mustache and lives inside the
`application/templates/` folder. You can organise your files into
subdirectories as you see fit and best describes your application. How these
correspond to backend functionality is not your concern, and the backend
programmer will ensure the routing and mapping is done correctly.

By default, the `application/templates/layout.mustache` will be used, which
will call in `application/templates/partials/header.mustache` and
`application/templates/partials/footer.mustache` around your primary content.
Of course, you can change this.

## Tags

Mustache tags are explained thoroughly by the Mustache documentation. Feel
free to insert them as you see fit and call them whatever you feel like. The
backend programmer will make sure these tags are populated with the
appropriate variables.

There are some default tags provided.

 - `{{page_title}}` is the page title.
 - `{{meta_description}}` is the meta description
 - `{{baseurl}}` is usually something like `/app/` if your website is running
   at `http://localhost/app/`
 - `{{currenturl}}` is like `{{baseurl}}`, but shows the path to your current
   location instead

Your backend developer can create more tags.

## Layouts and templates

Layout files are like themes. This allows your website to mix and match
multiple themes simultaneously, or switch between them. Again, the backend
programmer will sort out how a route will trigger a specific layout, not you.

Templates are primary page content that gets placed inside a layout.  In a
layout file, this can be included using the `{{>content}}` tag.

## Partials

Partials are little blocks of page content which can be reused. Partials exist
in `application/templates/partials/`. To include a partial in a template or
layout, just use a partial tag. For example `{{>foo}}` will include
`application/templates/partials/foo.mustache`.

## Assets

Assets, such as Javascript, CSS, and images are by default stored in `js/`,
`css/` and `images/`. There is purely a default and you can move it where you
see fit.

## HTML5Boilerplate

You'll notice that the default JS, CSS, images, htaccess, header and footer
already contain the default HTML5Boilerplate code. Now it's your turn to write
code :)

## Stylus

All CSS is included via the `css/main.styl` file. Run `stylus -w -c
css/main.styl` and you're set. By default, we've provided the `css/site.styl`
file for you to start putting your styles in.
