# WYMEditor CMS

VTemplate bundles an extremely barebones CMS. It hooks into your existing
mustache files and allows people to edit them.

## Warning

This CMS is still rather experimental. It's been used successfully on a few
sites, but needs polish. Feedback is very welcome.

## Setup

### Enable the routes

The first step is to make sure people can access the CMS. Just uncomment these
routes in `application/routes/default.php`.

```
Route::set('cms', 'cms')
    ->defaults(array(
        'controller' => 'cms',
        'action'     => 'dashboard'
    ));

Route::set('cms editor', 'cms/edit(/<template_path>)', array('template_path' => '.*'))
    ->defaults(array(
        'controller' => 'cms',
        'action'     => 'edit',
    ));
```

### Enable the module

The module is not loaded by default as not everybody wants a CMS. Just
uncomment the appropriate module line in `application/bootstrap.php`.

```
       'ko-cms'       => MODPATH.'ko-cms',       // CMS editor for template files
```

### Configure the CMS

Create an `application/config/cms.php` based of the example given in
`vendor/kohana-module/ko-cms/config/cms.php`. Importantly, you'll have to set
a CMS so that people have to authenticate to access the CMS, and set a list of
editable pages. The CMS works on a whitelist approach - by default nothing is
editable, and you enable pages to be edited via this configuration. This way,
clients only see what they're supposed to see.

So let's say we want to clients to edit
`application/templates/static/homepage.mustache`. This is how we'd whitelist
it.

```
    'editable_pages' => array(
        array(
            'category_name' => 'Static',
            'pages' => array(
                array(
                    'page' => 'static/homepage',
                    'name' => 'Homepage'
                )
            )
        )
    )
```

### Ensure write access

Because the CMS writes directly to files (which you are undoubtedly version
tracking), it needs write access. Make sure the files you've specified in your
`editable_pages` are write-enabled.

## Accessing the CMS

When you're ready, go to `http://localhost/app/cms/` and log in with the
password you configured. Have a play around :) Again, this is barebones and
meant to be extended.

## Keeping clean markup

The success of WYMEditor really depends on how clean your frontend markup is.
The cleaner, simpler, and more semantic your code is, the better WYMEditor
will perform.

WYMeditor will do its best to maintain clean code. All code is passed through
PHP Tidy and some manual checks to make sure Mustache tags aren't lost.

## New features

You'll notice support for a few new HTML5 blocklevel elements such as section,
article, and inline elements such as cite and code snippet. These are
straightforward.

Three new tools are provided too:

 - **Inject Element** - inserts an element as a child of the element that
   you're currently in.
 - **Clear Element** - moves the current element into the same scope as its
   parent.
 - **Append Element** - appends a new element onto the end of the document.

Browser support is still a little quirky, so for now try and use Chrome if
you're using these new tools.
