# Writing UATs

UATs (User Acceptance Tests) are an excellent way to ensure that your
application succesfully delivers on its _business_ expectations. It can also
be used to perform UI testing, and full stack testing.

## Configuring Behat

Behat is our testing framework. To configure it, edit the `behat` namespaced
variables in `build.properties` and deploy your application. If you want, you
can also edit `behat.yml` manually.

## Writing features with Behat

UATs are divided into features. This makes sense because you'll want to test
each and every feature in your application. Logically, features live in
`features/`. To test all the features just run Behat. There's nothing to test
yet, so you'll see it complete instantly.

```
$ bin/behat
```

## Using Mink

Behat is already setup with Mink by extending the MinkContext class in
`features/FeatureContext.php`. Let's write our first feature in
`features/Example.feature`:

```
Feature: Example
    In order to use Behat with vtemplate
    As somebody following the documentation
    I need to run this example

    Scenario: Visit the homepage
        Given I am on the homepage
        Then I should see "Hello world!"
```

Now when we run `bin/behat`, we'll see that our scenario has passed.

```
1 scenario (1 passed)
2 steps (2 passed)
```

## Gherkin definitions

Behat and Mink borrow heavily from Cucumber's Gherkin syntax for parsing
feature files. To see a full list of available definitions, just use the
definition list argument.

```
$ bin/behat -dl
```

You'll notice vtemplate has provided a few extra definitions. These are handy
when you are testing applications which deal with media or are responsive and
are Javascript heavy.

```
 Then /^"([^"]*)" should be visible$/
 Then /^"([^"]*)" should not be visible$/
Given /^I have an image with width "([^"]*)" and height "([^"]*)" in "([^"]*)"$/
 Then /^the "([^"]*)" element should display "([^"]*)"$/
 Then /^the "([^"]*)" element should be "([^"]*)" by "([^"]*)" pixels$/
```

## Mink drivers

The default Mink driver is set to Goutte. This is very fast and simple and
good for 90% of tasks. However vtemplate includes selenium2 and sahi, which
support extra things like testing Javascript. You can use these by specifying
them with the `@mink:` tag in your feature file.

```
    @mink:sahi
    Scenario: Something happens
        ...
```
