# Using Drivers

Drivers is the name of a library abstraction layer included in VTemplate. It
allows your application to easily switch between different libraries but use
the exact same interface, similar to the way Mink allows you to emulate
different browsers with the same code.

This means you can have crazy setups which use Kohana's caching library and
combine that with Symfony's validation library, and so on.

## Warning

Drivers is still a concept which is being ironed out. Currently only a few
libraries are supported, and the interfaces are prone to change. Feedback is
very welcome :)

## When you would use a driver

Your app will often need to use a library to perform common tasks. These tasks
were traditionally bundled with frameworks. For example, Kohana provides a
validation library, auth library, cache library, and so on. However these days
locking yourself into a single framework is a very short-term view. The answer
is to code your application separate from the delivery mechanism (ie. the
framework), then use dependency injection to insert these delivery-level
libraries into your application.

Driver calls these libraries "Tools", as it's a tool that your application is
using.

## How to enable Drivers

You'll need to set it as a requirement in your `composer.json` file. You'll
notice we've included it as a suggestion, now you just need to move it into
your require list.

```
"moult/driver": "dev-master",
```

You'll also have to enable dependencies you plan to use. For example, if you
want Driver to use Kohana's image manipulation libraries, you also need to
enable `"kohana/image": "3.3.*@dev",`. If you want to use Swiftmailer, you'll
have to enable `"swiftmailer/swiftmailer": "*"` ... and so on.

When you're ready, just update your Composer.

```
$ php composer.phar update
```

## What drivers are available

You can see all the available Tool interfaces in
`vendor/moult/driver/src/Driver/Core/Tool/`. More are coming, with better and
more general functions.

To see what adapters we have for a Tool interface, look at the other
directores inside `vendor/moult/driver/src/Driver/Core/`.

## How it works in code

For example, your app might be something like this.

```
<?php
namespace App\Core\Usecase\Product;

use App\Core\Tool;

class Purchase
{
    // Note that Tool\Validator is a copy of the interface provided by Driver
    public function __construct(Tool\Validator $validator)
    {
        // ...
    }
}
```

And your delivery might decide to use the Kohana validation library, so it'll
have something like this in `application/classes/Driver/Validator.php`

```
<?php

class Driver_Validator extends Driver\Core\Validator\Kohana {}
```

And then you can just give it to your application.

```
public function action_run()
{
    $usecase = App\Core\Usecase\Product\Purchase(
        new Driver_Validator
    );
    $usecase->execute();
}
```

Now let's say in the future you want to switch over to Symfony's validation
library.

```
<?php

class Driver_Validator extends Driver\Core\Validator\Symfony {}
```

Note that when extending a Driver you can always overload functions if you
have specific needs.
